Documentation for Azure Application Code Assessment Tool (#37523)
dotnet/docs: docs/azure/migration/appcat/dotnet-cli.md

---
title: Use Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET with the .NET CLI
description: Learn how to assess .NET applications to evaluate their readiness to migrate to Azure with the .NET CLI.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 11/10/2023
author: codemillmatt
ms.author: masoucou
---

# Analyze applications with the .NET CLI

> Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET is a tool to assess .NET source code to identify migration opportunities to Azure. It helps you to identify any issues your application might have when it is ported to Azure and improve the performance, scalability and security by suggesting modern, cloud-native solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET helps you to identify any issues your application might have when it is ported to Azure and improve the performance, scalability and security by suggesting modern, cloud-native solutions.
```

The tool is available as a [Visual Studio extension](./visual-studio.md) and a CLI tool.

This guide describes how to use the CLI tool to scan your application for possible incompatibilities with Azure.

If you have not installed the .NET CLI tool, please follow [these instructions first](./install.md).

## Scan your application

The application and code assessment for .NET CLI tool lets you decide which projects in your solution to scan to identify migration opportunities to Azure. Follow these steps to scan your application.

> In CLI run the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In CLI run the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```dotnetcli

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> appcat analyze <APPLICATION_PATH>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Type `appcat analyze` and press **Enter**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In CLI type `appcat analyze` and press **Enter**.
```

    > [!NOTE]
    > If this is your first time running application and code assessment for .NET, you will see an informational message about telemetry and how to opt-out if you should want to.

> 1. A screen is presented that allows you to pick the projects in your solution to analyze. Use the arrow keys to highlight individual projects and press the spacebar to select them. Press **Enter** when you're ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A screen is presented that allows you to pick the projects in your solution to analyze. Use the arrow keys to highlight individual projects and press **Space** to select them. Press **Enter** when you're ready.
```

    >

1. You'll then be prompted to generate a report with the results of the analysis. The output can be formatted as CSV, HTML, or JSON. Press **Enter**.
    ![Screenshot of the CLI report format selection screen](./media/cli/cli-report-format-selection.png)
1. You'll be prompted for a report name. Input the name and press **Enter**.
    ![Screenshot of the CLI report name screen](./media/cli/cli-report-name.png)
1. Finally, you'll be asked whether you want to perform the scan. Press **y** to continue, or **n** to go back and change options.
1. Once the analysis completes, the report is saved, and a summary of the results are displayed.
    ![Screenshot of the analysis summary](./media/cli/cli-scan-finished.png)

## Next Steps

> ### Interpet the scan results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Interpret the results
```

> For information on how to intepret results, see [Interpret the analysis results from the Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET](./interpret-results.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information on how to interpret results, see [Interpret the analysis results from the Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET](./interpret-results.md).
```

> For information on how to use and interpret results from the application and code assessment Visual Studio, see [Use with Visual Studio](./visual-studio.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Use Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET with the .NET CLI
description: Learn how to assess .NET applications to evaluate their readiness to migrate to Azure with the .NET CLI.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 11/10/2023
author: codemillmatt
ms.author: masoucou
---

> # Analyze projects with the .NET CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Analyze applications with the .NET CLI
```

> Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET is a tool to assess .NET source code to identify replatforming and migration opportunities to Azure. It helps you modernize and replatform large-scale .NET applications through a broad range of transformations, use cases, and code patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET is a tool to assess .NET source code to identify replatforming and migration opportunities to Azure. It helps you to identify any issues your application might have when it is ported to Azure and improve the performance, scalability and security by suggesting a modern, cloud-native solutions.
```

This guide describes how to use the application and code assessment Visual Studio extension to both scan and interpret the results of the scan.

> If you have not installed the .NET CLI tool, please follow [these instructions first](./install.md#install-the-NET-global-tool).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have not installed the Azure Migrate application and code assessment CLI tool, please follow [these instructions first](./install.md#install-the-NET-global-tool).
```

## Scan your application

> The application and code assessment .NET CLI tool lets you decide which projects in your solution to scan to identify migration opportunities to Azure. Follow these steps to scan your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application and code assessment for .NET CLI tool lets you decide which projects in your solution to scan to identify migration opportunities to Azure. Follow these steps to scan your application.
```

> 1. Switch to the base directory of your solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In CLI run the command:

```dotnetcli
appcat analyze <APPLICATION_PATH>
```
You can omit the application path if you are currently in the base directory of your solution

The tool will ask you to provide a path and a format (.html, .json, or .csv) for the report file that it  will produce as you go, but you can also specify that in the parameters ahead of time:

```dotnetcli
appcat analyze <APPLICATION_PATH> --report MyAppReport --serializer html
```
```

1. Type `appcat analyze` and press **Enter**.

    > [!NOTE]
    > If this is your first time running application and code assessment for .NET, you will see an informational message about telemetry and how to opt-out if you should want to.

1. A screen is presented that allows you to pick the projects in your solution to analyze. Use the arrow keys to highlight individual projects and press the spacebar to select them. Press **Enter** when you're ready.
    ![A screenshot of the CLI tool's project selection](./media/cli/cli-analyze-project-selection.png)
1. Next you'll be presented with the option to analyze **Source code and settings**, **Binary dependencies**, or both. Make your choice and press **Enter**.
    ![Screenshot of the CLI dependency selection screen](./media/cli/cli-select-dependencies.png)
    > [!NOTE]

>     > The **source code and settings** option will only scan the source code in the projects you selected on the previous screen. The **Binary dependencies** option will scan any dependencies (such as NuGet packages) your projects rely on. You can expect to see many more issues identified when **binary dependencies** is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > The **source code and settings** option will only scan the source code in the projects you selected on the previous screen. The **Binary dependencies** option will scan any dependencies (such as NuGet packages) your projects rely on. You can expect to see many more issues identified when **binary dependencies** is selected and this option can create some "noise" since it will also identify potential compatibility issues of the binaries that are not necessarily apply to your application. 
```

>     > You should consider selecting only **source code and settings** first to figure out what issues reside in your code and fix those before runnig the **binary dependencies** scan.

Reviewer: ```
```

Reviewer: Let's delete this paragraph (I gave it another thought; we just inform them, and they can come up with their strategy)

    >
1. You'll then be prompted to generate a report with the results of the analysis. The output can be formatted as CSV, HTML, or JSON. Press **Enter**.
    ![Screenshot of the CLI report format selection screen](./media/cli/cli-report-format-selection.png)
1. You'll be prompted for a report name. Input the name and press **Enter**.
    ![Screenshot of the CLI report name screen](./media/cli/cli-report-name.png)
1. Finally, you'll be asked whether you want to perform the scan. Press **y** to continue, or **n** to go back and change options.
1. Once the analysis completes, the report is saved, and a summary of the results are displayed.
    ![Screenshot of the analysis summary](./media/cli/cli-scan-finished.png)

> ## Interpret the results

Reviewer: Both CLI and VS version produce the same reports, so let's move this section as a separate page and call it "Interpret the report results".

We can start with:
"Both CLI tool and Visual Studio allows you to create HTML, CSV and JSON reports. This section describes how to interpret these reports."

> For the purposes of explaining the results of the analysis, we're going to use the HTML report. The report presents its results in a dashboard format. In this section we'll describe the different sections of the dashboard and how to interpret them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the purposes of explaining the results of the analysis, we're going to use the HTML report. The report presents its results in a dashboard format. In this part we'll describe the different sections of the dashboard and how to interpret them.
```

### Dashboard view

> The main dashboard shows a summary of the results of the scan. It shows the number of projects scanned, the number of issues found, it estimates the amount of effort to fix the issues in story points, and it classifies the issues by severity from Mandatory to Informational.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main dashboard shows a summary of the results of the scan. It displays the number of projects scanned, the number of issues found, it estimates the amount of effort to fix the issues in story points, and it classifies the issues by severity from Mandatory to Informational.
```

> The main dashboard shows a summary of the results of the scan. It shows the number of projects scanned, the number of issues found, it estimates the amount of effort to fix the issues in story points, and it classifies the issues by severity from Mandatory to Informational.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main dashboard shows a summary of the results of the scan. It shows the number of projects scanned, the number of issues and incidents and estimates the amount of effort to fix all incidents. Here issue is some sort of violation or potential problem, and an incident is what that issue occurs in your code. For example, an issue could be a call to a database that is not accessible from Azure, and the incidents are the times when you make that call in your code. That way one issue might have many incidents (implementation) across your code.

Issues have a severity from Mandatory to Informational.
```

Here are the issue severity classifications:

* **Mandatory** - the issue has to be resolved for the migration to be successful.

> * **Optional** - the issue discovered is a real issue and fixing it could improve the app after migration, however it is not blocking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Optional** - the issue discovered is a real issue and fixing it could improve the application work after migration, however it is not blocking.
```

> * **Potential** - we are not sure if it is necessarily a blocking problem, but raised just in case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Potential** - it could or could not be a blocking problem depending on the specifics of your app and the migration scenario, so the tool draws your attention and suggests what checks could be made to ensure the application will work in Azure.
```

* **Informational** - the issue was raised only for informational purpose and is not required to be resolved.

![Screenshot of the application and code assessment tool for .NET dashboard](./media/cli/cli-report-dashboard.png)

> The dashboard displays a graph of the category of each issue found. The categories can range from HTTP, to database, to scaling, and so on. The categories are based upon rules to identify issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dashboard displays issues grouped by different categories such as HTTP, database, scaling, and so on.
```

> The **Summary** section of the dashboard contains several terms that are worth defining as you'll see them in other screens.

Reviewer: I moved it up. let's delete it from here

* **Projects**: the number of projects scanned.
* **Issues**: the number of unique encounters of a rule that may need to be addressed.
* **Incidents**: the total number of occurences of all issues found.
* **Story points**: the estimated effort to fix all of the issues found. This is a relative measure of effort and is not meant to be an exact estimate.

### Projects view

> Click on the **Projects** link below the **Dashboard** on the left side of the report to see the number of issues, incidents, and the estimated effort to fix those issues by each project scanned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on the **Projects** link below the **Dashboard** on the left side of the report to see the number of issues, incidents, and the estimated effort to fix those incidents by each project scanned.
```

![Screenshot of the projects dashboard](./media/cli/cli-report-projects-overview.png)

You can drill down to see the issues found in each project by clicking on the project name. This will show a screen similar to the overall dashboard but scoped to the selected project.

![Screenshot of the a single project's dashboard](./media/cli/cli-report-project-dashboard-details.png)

At the top of the project dashboard you'll find 3 tabs: **Dashboard**, **Components**, and **Issues**.

> Click on the **Components** tab to see which files the incidents of the issues identified reside in. You can drill down into the file to see the rule that triggered the incident, a description of the rule, the exact position in the code where the issue exists, and an estimation of the effort it will take to fix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on the **Components** tab to see which files the incidents of the issues identified reside in. You can drill down into the file to see the issues that triggered the incident, a description of the issue, the exact position in the code where the incidents exist, and an estimation of the effort it will take to fix the incidents.
```

> ![Screenshot of the CLI's report project component dashboard](./media/cli/cli-report-project-component.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Screenshot of the report's project component dashboard](./media/cli/cli-report-project-component.png)
```

> ![Screenshot of the CLI's report project component dashboard](./media/cli/cli-report-project-component.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Screenshot of the report's project component dashboard](./media/cli/cli-report-project-component.png)
```

> Finally, by clicking on the **Issues** tab, you can see the issues organzied by the rules which triggered them. You can drill down into the rules to see the exact file location that needs to be addressed and the effort to fix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, by clicking on the **Issues** tab, you can see the incidents organized by the issues which triggered them. You can drill down into the issues to see the exact file location that needs to be addressed and the effort to fix.
```

![Screenshot of the project issues dashboard](./media/cli/cli-report-project-issue.png)

> ### Aggregate issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Aggregate issues view
```

> Click on the **Aggregate** link below the **Projects** on the left side of the report's screen to see the issues organized by the rule that triggered them. These are all of the issues across all of the projects scanned, including the number of incidents and an estimated story points effort. You can drill down into the rules to see the exact files and locations that needs to be addressed and the effort to fix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on the **Aggregate issues** link below the **Projects** on the left side of the report's screen to see the incidents organized by the issues that triggered them. These are all of the issues across all of the projects scanned, including the number of incidents and an estimated story points effort. You can drill down into each issue to see the exact files and locations that needs to be addressed and the effort to fix.
```
